README.md, before:

# supertrend-bot

Supertrend bot using python (pandas and ccxt).  

At its core, the Supertrend calculates an upperbound and lower bound and use them as threshold to buy/sell. Due to the trending nature of cryptocurrency, trailing stop for orders is analysed (by me) and proved to be suitable and bring great profit (great enough to cancel out multiple lost trades). 

However, it's not efficient during sideway + volatile period. Therefore, you can consider to turn the bot off for time like this.

Here is the screenshot as a demonstration of Supertrend Indicator in TradingView. `Buy` is placed at the end of red line and `Sell` is placed at the end of green line.  
![Screenshot](/media/Screenshot.png)

Code modified from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1PEyddA1y5E


## Instruction

Class SupertrendBot (`supertrend.py`) is used to initiate bot's configuration and has necessary functions to run your bot. Quickly read through the `__init__` of this class to get an idea on what to include in its object initiation.

An example of a bot is [`bot_matic.py`](/bot_matic.py).


## Notes in implemetation
- Filled position is different from calculated position (e.g. position = lot / price). It's safer to update position from executed order's returned result. Good for trade log and avoid getting error for selling more than what you actually bought.
- Exchange requires >1 second or much more to update its prices. So if you request prices miliseconds right after the candle closes, you WILL NOT get the latest price candle (latest price row). [Read more here.](https://docs.ccxt.com/en/latest/manual.html#notes-on-latency)
- Choosing the optimal configuration when trading on small timeframe (e.g. 15m) require large historical data. Because 1000 data points of 15m timeframe only covers ~10 days, which is very bias (specifically, what if it's downtrend during that period)


# Roadmap

Week 1 (04/07)
- Write buy/sell logic: Create TP mechanism for Supertrend - Done
- Check the math after TP and trendChange - Done. TP at 1:1 cut a part of the profit while most of which is achieved in very long trend. Additionally, such long trends are not many. Thus, less profit in the end.
- Back-test Supertrend, observe results with different config as well (length, multiplier (maybe 1->5)) - Done

Week 2 (18/7):
- Use ccxt to forward-test / Create class as an account 
- Forward testing (with variable 'balance'?)

Week 3 (25/7):
- Use test API ByBit for forward testing, compare result after 2 weeks with shorten past data of the same length.

Week 4 (29/8/2022):
- Use real API Binance with little money (Current Profit/Loss: +6.5)
- Use larger historical data to find optimal configuration https://docs.coinapi.io/#limits

Week 5 (05/09/2022)
- Get top10 config, average loss, % config loss
- Plot balance vs config; pnl distribution of top10

Week 39 / 2022:
- Choose best configs that in top10 highest balance and in toplist from analysis
- Split bear/recent-year periods, test on these periods, rank the test results
- 📍 Quickly re-evaluate altcoins on bear market (make sure it’s bear)
- Display backtest on chart on Web App using https://dygraphs.com/ + JS


- Calculate risk-adjusted return [https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/riskadjustedreturn.asp](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/riskadjustedreturn.asp)
- More buttons and inputs to operate bot from browser
- ALGO: Code Nadaraya-Watson estimator + Try trade logic for Nadaraya-Watson + Supertrend
- ALGO: Use deep learning (e.g., LSTM) 
- Alarm for every execution 


## Others
- Price API: https://messari.io/api/docs
- TA-Lib (Python): https://mrjbq7.github.io/ta-lib/
- Toi di code dao: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WlO4lkvyLvI
- Indicator: https://github.com/thanhnguyennguyen/trading-indicator 
- Visualisation: https://github.com/yongghongg/stock-screener/blob/main/supertrend_demo_medium.ipynb / https://medium.datadriveninvestor.com/the-supertrend-implementing-screening-backtesting-in-python-70e8f88f383d


## Mics bookmarks for CAB420
- https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-get-started-building-a-stock-cryptocurrency-forex-trading-program-2abbf0a4729f
- https://thecitadelpub.com/elons-lethal-mistake-predicting-the-stock-price-of-tesla-with-twitter-and-machine-learning-5e89282ce75f
- https://medium.datadriveninvestor.com/get-up-to-date-financial-ratios-p-e-p-b-and-more-of-stocks-using-python-4b53dd82908f
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xfzGZB4HhEE
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z9wt01WW9go&list=WL&index=100
- https://towardsdatascience.com/machine-learning-for-day-trading-27c08274df54
- https://www.mdpi.com/2673-2688/2/4/30/htm



<!-- 
## Notes
Profit from $100
- 1000 datapoints of 5m time-frame cover 3.6 days => $12
- 1000 datapoints of 15m ............... 10 days => $16
- 1000 datapoints of 1h  ............... 40 days => $36
- 1000 datapoints of 4h  ............... 160 days (5.3 months) => $75 

-->

Commit message:

Add plan, analysis summary in the past week

README.md, after:

# supertrend-bot

Supertrend bot using python (pandas and ccxt).  

At its core, the Supertrend calculates an upperbound and lower bound and use them as threshold to buy/sell. Due to the trending nature of cryptocurrency, trailing stop for orders is analysed (by me) and proved to be suitable and bring great profit (great enough to cancel out multiple lost trades). 

However, it's not efficient during sideway + volatile period. Therefore, you can consider to turn the bot off for time like this.

Here is the screenshot as a demonstration of Supertrend Indicator in TradingView. `Buy` is placed at the end of red line and `Sell` is placed at the end of green line.  
![Screenshot](/media/Screenshot.png)

Code modified from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1PEyddA1y5E


## Instruction

Class SupertrendBot (`supertrend.py`) is used to initiate bot's configuration and has necessary functions to run your bot. Quickly read through the `__init__` of this class to get an idea on what to include in its object initiation.

An example of a bot is [`bot_matic.py`](/bot_matic.py).


## Notes in implemetation
- Filled position is different from calculated position (e.g. position = lot / price). It's safer to update position from executed order's returned result. Good for trade log and avoid getting error for selling more than what you actually bought.
- Exchange requires >1 second or much more to update its prices. So if you request prices miliseconds right after the candle closes, you WILL NOT get the latest price candle (latest price row). [Read more here.](https://docs.ccxt.com/en/latest/manual.html#notes-on-latency)
- Choosing the optimal configuration when trading on small timeframe (e.g. 15m) require large historical data. Because 1000 data points of 15m timeframe only covers ~10 days, which is very bias (specifically, what if it's downtrend during that period)


# Roadmap

Week 1 (04/07)
- Write buy/sell logic: Create TP mechanism for Supertrend - Done
- Check the math after TP and trendChange - Done. TP at 1:1 cut a part of the profit while most of which is achieved in very long trend. Additionally, such long trends are not many. Thus, less profit in the end.
- Back-test Supertrend, observe results with different config as well (length, multiplier (maybe 1->5)) - Done

Week 2 (18/7):
- Use ccxt to forward-test / Create class as an account 
- Forward testing (with variable 'balance'?)

Week 3 (25/7):
- Use test API ByBit for forward testing, compare result after 2 weeks with shorten past data of the same length.

Week 4 (29/8/2022):
- Use real API Binance with little money (Current Profit/Loss: +6.5)
- Use larger historical data to find optimal configuration https://docs.coinapi.io/#limits

Week 5 (05/09/2022)
- Get top10 config, average loss, % config loss
- Plot balance vs config; pnl distribution of top10

Week 39 / 2022:
- Choose 10 configs that are in toplist config and have the highest balance: Check [`sandbox/backtest_result/best_configs_backtest_btc.csv`](sandbox/backtest_result/best_configs_backtest_btc.csv)
- Analyse BitTracker performance in bear/recent-year periods on BTC/USD with best configs found: Risk is pretty large (max -90%) in a bear market, but acceptable compared to the profit in a bull market (+200%)

Week 40 / 2022:
- 📍 Quickly re-evaluate altcoins on bear market (make sure it’s bear)
- Display backtest on chart on Web App using https://dygraphs.com/ + JS
- Re-plan final product (what functionalities, features is it going to have?)

Future:
- Calculate risk-adjusted return [https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/riskadjustedreturn.asp](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/riskadjustedreturn.asp)
- More buttons and inputs to operate bot from web app
- ALGO: Code Nadaraya-Watson estimator + Try trade logic for Nadaraya-Watson + Supertrend
- ALGO: Use deep learning (e.g., LSTM) 
- Alarm for every execution 


## Others
- Price API: https://messari.io/api/docs
- TA-Lib (Python): https://mrjbq7.github.io/ta-lib/
- Toi di code dao: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WlO4lkvyLvI
- Indicator: https://github.com/thanhnguyennguyen/trading-indicator 
- Visualisation: https://github.com/yongghongg/stock-screener/blob/main/supertrend_demo_medium.ipynb / https://medium.datadriveninvestor.com/the-supertrend-implementing-screening-backtesting-in-python-70e8f88f383d


## Mics bookmarks for CAB420
- https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-get-started-building-a-stock-cryptocurrency-forex-trading-program-2abbf0a4729f
- https://thecitadelpub.com/elons-lethal-mistake-predicting-the-stock-price-of-tesla-with-twitter-and-machine-learning-5e89282ce75f
- https://medium.datadriveninvestor.com/get-up-to-date-financial-ratios-p-e-p-b-and-more-of-stocks-using-python-4b53dd82908f
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xfzGZB4HhEE
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z9wt01WW9go&list=WL&index=100
- https://towardsdatascience.com/machine-learning-for-day-trading-27c08274df54
- https://www.mdpi.com/2673-2688/2/4/30/htm
